Did Jesus explain to His disciples how that perfect body came to be? Did He take the time to do that?
We don't know, but what we do know is
how He used that perfect body when He was on earth
has a profound effect upon our relationship with Jehovah God when we meditate and think about that.
And that's what we want to focus on in our discussion this morning, but how did that body come about?
Let's find out. Let's open our Bibles, please, to Luke chapter 1,
Luke chapter 1, and we're going to look at verse 31.
Now the angel Gabriel and speaking to Mary, he says, look, you will become pregnant and you will give birth to a son
You're to name him Jesus, pregnant me. I'm a virgin. How can that happen? Jehovah employed His Holy Spirit
in transferring the perfect life force of His only begotten son to the womb of Mary
Thus causing conception
Jehovah would cancel out any imperfection that would be passed on to the child
thereby producing a genetic pattern that was perfect from its start.
Imperfection was not going to stop Jehovah's purpose from being
from being accomplished. He dealt with that. He handled that
very interesting here to in verse 35
and answer the angel said to her
Holy Spirit will come upon you. The power of the most high will overshadow you. So again, Holy Spirit's involved and
in some manner a Jehovah guaranteed that it would be a boy and then he assured that that developing embryo
would be shielded from the taint of sin and protected from any harmful force. So there she has
this baby boy. She was a Jewish mother. So no doubt that Jesus would have had some of the physical traits of Mary
His Jewish mother
However, we need to remember that he was not another personality. He was not another person
He was the only begotten son and he was able to identify himself as such in due time
But now imagine Mary
giving birth to this little baby
And she's holding this little baby in her arms now
How many mothers have said to us when that baby is born and they're holding that baby and they say look at my baby
It's perfect
But Mary was right
She got it right. She was the only one that could say my baby is perfect
She didn't have to count the toes and the fingers and so forth. She got it
But but but the thought is is that though she didn't fully understand
All the details
She's holding this body and it's this body that 33 and a half years is holding the blood
That's going to be poured out in behalf of mankind as a ransom sacrifice
But before that blood was going to be poured out
Jesus was going to use that body in a very special way he used his fleshly body to honor Jehovah God
So again, understanding how he used that fleshly body to honor Jehovah has a profound effect upon our relationship with Jehovah
Let's see how it's open on Bibles now to first Peter chapter 4
first Peter chapter 4
we're going to read verse 1
Since Christ suffered in the flesh
suffered in the flesh you to arm yourselves with the same mental disposition
Because the person who has suffered in the flesh has desisted from sins. Let's think about this for a moment
Christ suffered in the flesh
That fleshly body this is directly related to the issue of sovereignty
His blood paid the ransom
But why did Christ suffer in the flesh
Because he chose to use his fleshly body to honor Jehovah
He chose to use his fleshly body to defend Jehovah's sovereignty
He chose to use that fleshly body to prove that Satan is a liar
He suffered in the flesh on nice and 1433 CE
Jesus allowed himself to be arrested by a mob
He allowed himself to be subjected to an illegal trial
He allowed his back to be torn by ribbons scurved through a scourgey and to be nailed to his hands and feet to a pole
He allowed that and this is why he said at John chapter 10 verse 16
This is this is why the father loves me
The father loves me why because I surrender my life
No man takes my life from me. I surrender it of my own initiative
That's the example he said for us now. Let's look at verse one again this time
We see that be part where it says because the person
Who has suffered in the flesh? So who is that that you that's me where the person we suffer in the flesh
We desist from sins verse two
So that he you me may live the remainder of his time in the flesh no more for the desires of men
But for God's will
The fact that Peter draws attention to suffering in the flesh for you and me
This is what we're expected to do there. We're imitating Jesus Christ by doing that
So here we are this very special week of activity. We think deeply
Upon the ransom sacrifice. We think deeply about how Jesus used his life
And we have opportunity to do that for example
Some ask why do we pass the emblems on memorial night?
They say if in a large congregation there are so many there wouldn't be more practical if the service just stood at the
End of the aisle and if someone wanted to partake of the emblems
They would just nod or give a sign to the server and he would give them to that person
Look at the time we would save
But that's not the pattern in the scriptures. That's not what Jesus did
That's not the procedure that was instituted. We're following the biblical pattern
But in addition to that in the actual passing of the emblems. What does that do
That deepens our appreciation as we see the red pass as we see the wine pass
We are able to
Understand the sacred things that are discussed even more so that evening
And we're able to get involved our feelings are get involved get involved that event burns into our memory
So this Friday as those emblems are being passed as the bread is being passed now
You might say but I've been to so many memorials and
Some in our family have been to decades worth of memorials
But how about this Friday we do something different we just
As that bread passes we just think we just take a moment to reflect on what that bread represents
And we ask ourselves
Can I
Think of one way that I can use my body my mind
my energy
To better
Worship Jehovah God is there one way that I can do better
To what extent am I slaving for others as Jesus Christ did
Like Jesus Christ to what extent am I humbling my body and leading it as a slave
Even if it has to take drastic measures of at times with self-control to make sure that
I am giving an answer to the one who was taunting my heavenly Father
When we examine the life of Jesus Christ it's as if he said to the devil it says if he declared
You want to attack my father you go through me
You're going to go through me because I am Michael who is like God no one attacks my God
I'm the chief defender of his sovereignty. I am the champion of my God. I'm the chief vindicator of him
That's who I am
And we take that same stance that same posture
Someone wants to attack our Heavenly Father you want to attack my Heavenly Father devil you go through me
You go through me and my integrity my obedience my faithful course you know what it will do will embarrass you
It's going to push you back. It's going to humiliate you
It's going to disgrace you because I'm using my body as Jesus Christ did to honor my Heavenly Father